I told you earlier that I lived at home and I worked at home.
I milked a bunch of cows and loaded up the milk, took it into the creamery at Stephenville, and I heard the news when I got into town that morning.
Somebody said, hey, did you hear what happened at Pearl Harbor?
You know, and I hadn't heard it.
I don't know why we didn't.
No one turned the old radio on, I guess.
Did it dawn on you what that might mean to your life?
Yes, it did.
Where were you when you heard that President Roosevelt had died?
I was on my way back home from Southwest Pacific.
Or maybe, I believe I was.
I believe I was on a troop ship.
Or maybe, yeah.
Or maybe that was just before I got on the troop ship.
But I was still in the Pacific, somewhere.
Where were you when you heard that the Japanese had surrendered?
I was in Ellington Field.
That was on the 14th of August.
What did you and your buddies do?
Well, I don't recall.
There were so many of us out there on the base.
and so little places to go to get drunk that I didn't.
I can remember.
The thing that I do remember most anything is, what does this mean now?
Am I going to get out of here?
In my case, I thought, am I actually going to get out of here in time to start veterinary school this fall?
I didn't really think I would.
kept coming to us that the muster outlines were going to be long.
And it would have been because the very first few people that got out had to go to Fort Sam, San Antonio, to be discharged.
And then pretty soon they moved the discharge to the big bases like at Ellison.
And you came to A&M that fall and took that heavy load that first semester and got rid of that chemistry course.
Did you, and you, when you got that first test back, you said you were worried about whether or not you'd passed it.
Yeah.
Were there any other moments when you paused and wondered if veterinary medicine was right for you?
I don't recall any.
So that you?
I figured the system out.
I studied, I studied hard and worked hard.
But I learned the system too.
I learned how to prepare.
The reason that a lot of kids had trouble, or even veterans had trouble, they tried to cram at the end instead of studying every day, you know, working, preparing, getting ready.
I never, on heavy exam days, we might have two exams on Friday morning, and I'd be in bed by 10.30, because I knew that was not the way to whip that place.
because you learn by repetition, over and over and over.
So Willie and I would sit there and we'd quiz each other, and half the time we'd have every question down, it would be on the exam.
All right, now that and your, him having the benefit of him as a roommate began your second semester.
Second semester.
Did it continue?
All the way through.
All the way through, okay.
There was no time then when you worried about do I stay or not.
You did well that first year, and it was two semesters.
What did you do that next summer?
Well, we had to make the decision.
When spring got here, in the spring of 1946, we had all those kids coming in, and see, they had been on an accelerated program, trimesters.
You remember those?
So we had to make a decision, and the faculty did.
And the poor faculty, now I realize what onerous burden they carry.
But at that time I didn't.
And so we had to make a decision, are we going to
go on through on the accelerated program?
Are we going to cut out this summer and drop back to fall and go through on a four-year program?
Well, as I mentioned, I thought my life had already passed me by.
So I led, along with Willie and a lot of others, we opted to stay on the trimester system, although we never did like it that much.
But a lot of others didn't.
You remember Dr. Al Price?
Well, he opted to drop out, then he came back, so he graduated a year later than I did, just because of the way he did.
All right, so you then stayed on the trimester for three years and finished what was for others?
I finished in June of 48.
Of 48.
In hindsight, what would you recommend be the curriculum today?
Would it be three trimester years or four two-semester years?
I'm kind of surprised that you asked me this because I fought for about seven years to get off that darn trimester system.
Every way I could.
I collared every president that we had, argued with every legislature I could.
I never liked it, and I thought it was a bad sequel.
And you still do?
Yeah, even though I did.
I think I understand your thinking, but why do you feel that way?
It burned out students and faculty.
It may have been tougher on faculty than students.
And then, of course, from an academic standpoint, the killer is
The killer is from the academic standpoint is there's no time for research, no time for scholarship, no time.
No, I had about three real top missions when I went to Texas A&M.
One was to get off the trimester system.
Let's sidetrack on this man you mentioned named Alvin Price.
Describe him as a student.
You did?
No, no, I want you to.
Oh, you want me to.
Describe him as a student.
What kind of person was he?
Al was older than I and a lot of the others.
Alvin had been a lieutenant colonel, I believe, in the artillery.
He was a tough nut.
You know, he was hard, rigid, fair, honest, beyond words.
But he was tough, and he was a good student, worked hard, and he made a good teacher, a good administrator.
Did you, as a student, you all knew who he was?
Oh, yeah.
And we had a lot of them like him.
You remember the man that got A&M out of all the trouble with Gibbs, Leon, do you remember him?
Libs was a major in the artillery.
Did Al Price as a student have a nickname?
Slick.
He was Slick as a student?
Now, why did they call him Slick?
I don't know.
He just knew the work.
He knew the way around.
He was a good politician.
That's what I've always assumed it meant.
I think the name grew when he became a teacher because he was a good teacher.
And he got the message across in a very smooth but very effective way.
And perhaps because of his dress.
Al was a neat dresser.
wore nice clothes for that time and that place.
I don't know if he did in 45 or not because he couldn't buy them, but it was a neat dresser.
Did you have a student nickname?
I never did, no.
No, I don't think I had a student nickname.
When did you begin to feel
certain that you were on the right track and kind of began to relax, okay, I think I can do this work.
How long did it take you?
Just a few weeks, I think.
So after that first set of tests, you, okay.
Well, what you do is you go back and analyze it and you find out, well, did I really do that poorly?
No, I hadn't.
I'd done pretty well.
But Dr. Cruz wanted everybody to know what the rumor was.
He wanted to scare the living daylights out of it.
And he did.
As you look back, can you remember any conversations with any faculty member that you now realize were very important for you and your career and your life as a veterinarian?
I guess I'd have to put about three men in that category.
What I guess I owe the most to that made me think about academic medicine was a man by the name of Virgil Robinson.
Do you ever remember him?
Virgil was a pathologist and a good one.
He was an Auburn graduate.
He had a Ph.D.
from Vanderbilt, I believe.
at that time, and that was a rare bird that had that training at that time.
And he taught basic pathology, and he was a big man, but he had an abnormally big head.
You can imagine what he called it.
Hydro, for hydrocephalus, you know.
Well, I don't know if Dr. Robinson ever knew he had that name or not.
Anyway, I remember about the time I was halfway through my senior year.
I met Dr. Roberts in the hall one day, and he said, would you come into my office?
What the devil have I done, you know?
And he said, sit down.
He said, I won't talk to you.
He said, I want to tell you that I think you'd make a good academician.
So I think you'd enjoy it.
You're thorough.
You work hard.
You like to study.
You obviously like to learn.
So I guess he had a factor.
He said, I have a communication here from
a man up at Missouri.
He said, his name is Elder, Cecil Elder, and he said he's looking for an assistant type, a flunky, graduate student, and so,
He said, he's not a very good pathologist, but he said, you might profit from going there and said, you can see how the wind blows.
He said, I'd rather send you somewhere where they had a better, a better, stronger department.
They said they don't have a strong department.
He said, they're trying to get started, but he said, you can learn something there.
And, of course, they would pay me a fairly decent stipend.
So I communicated with Dr. Elder, and later on, oh, in January, I mean later on, about the time I graduated or soon thereafter, I agreed to take a job without coming.
I took it all as word.
But he didn't want me to come until September.
So I worked for the USDA in the summer of 48.
Then I had Dr. Eads and Dr. Burns, both in physiology and pharmacology.
One time or other, they would encourage me.
They thought maybe I was worth saving.
But Dr. Robinson was the one that I guess had the most, although I didn't stay with Dr. Elder and I didn't stay with pathology, although I would like to.
Because I got here and I realized that what Dr. Robinson said was true in spades.
And it wasn't a strong... It was not a good situation.
So I left and went to practice.
We got married that spring, right at the end of the semester.
And was over at California, Missouri for a brief time.
And I got brucellosis.
I had a lot of development in such a short period of time.
Let's see, back to A&M.
What in those, in your...
professional student studies, which now do you look back upon as the key courses that were the most important for you?
Pathology, physiology, parasitology had a terribly weak microbiology professor.
That was the worst thing I could say about A&M.
Although I wound up,
getting my PhD in microbiology and parasitology, but I sure didn't get it as a result of anything I got at A&M.
Now what made those courses you listed as very positive, what made them the most important?
Was it for you individually or was it most important for almost everybody?
Well, they were the basis of medicine.
Pathology and microbiology are the basis and physiology are the basis of medicine.
Medicine wouldn't be anything without physiology.
It's a key.
All right.
If you were in the context of this question, you have omnipotence.
You can redo the veterinary curriculum completely.
What would you have more of and less of?
Well, some of the things that are in there are there for reasons because veterinarians are trained broadly.
And you have to have those in there because they have to take the state boards and meet the needs.
And some are going to be, not all of them are going to be academicians.
Not all of them are going to be researchers.
Not all are going to be teachers.
So you have to have a general program.
And I'm not sure I know much of anything I'd take out.
I still think you have to have those core courses.
I would have less anatomy today.
And I don't say that because I'm influenced with super knowledge.
But I think at that time we were studying too much anatomy in my rope memory.
And so, and medical schools and veterinary schools have reduced it.
All right, and what would you add more then?
If you had some extra space, what would you add to it?
What would you give more of?
Well, it may not be very logical, but when I knew that Richard was going to Texas A&M, I tried to brainwash him a little bit.
to get him to strengthen the Department of Veterinary Public Health.
And now that would seem to fly in the face of what I told you, that physiology and microbiology and pathology are the key.
That is, that's the foundation.
But the reason that I'd like to see Richard or any young dean that would go into the job there, because of the changing in our society today
the need for veterinarians to understand public health, how to implement it, how to increase it, how to develop it.
And we need the research program to go with it.
And I had a chance at A&M to consolidate some departments.
I would not have consolidated veterinary public health with anything.
But when Dr. Shattuck came in, he was one, we'd laugh about veterinary deans, any dean, of being either a lumper or either put all the things together or take them apart, scatter them.
Doctor, a lot of the young deans that came in about 10 years ago were lumpers.
So they'd lump two or three departments together.
And what they wound up doing is lumping, especially in a big school like A&M, they'd lump three departments together.
And what they did, they spread the department head across such a broad range that he had no longer a span of control.
All right.
Back to your coursework and labs and so forth, do you remember any specific experiences that were kind of life-changing in the lab or in something that you discovered for yourself that made a deep impression on you as a veterinarian-to-be?
This was back in school.
Someday you stumbled onto something that you wanted to spend half your life learning more about or that you wanted to be a crusader to help make the world safer because of this, that, or the other.
Back in those days, that was before so many changes happened in the profession.
That was before what we talk today, we say that the veterinary profession has been urbanized and feminized.
That was in the day, and because of my background, I thought food animal medicine, farm practice was so terribly important.
And so I think that was one of the reasons that I wanted to go in a certain direction and wanted to see that strengthened.
And when I went to A&M, I was able to do that to some degree.
Although, unfortunately, I was late getting it started.
It's still hurting.
It's still hurting today.
We have, at this school here, we have 75% of the first-year classes are women.
I am not, I guess, women in the veterinary profession.
Never was.
I worked every way in the world I could to get them admitted 30 years ago.
And I wanted to see them enter the profession, just like I wanted to see black students and Spanish students.
But it went too far.
And of course, a lot of it's out of the control of anybody.
The reason it's out of the control is the way agriculture's going.
And when we have things like premium standard farms, the veterinarians are not going to be out there treating those sick pigs.
And so you're saying to me in a way veterinary medicine has gone away from food animal practice toward pets and exotic?
Horses.
And horses.
And not as much now as it was in horses because—
Too many people went and broke a horse for her.
All right.
Let's see.
Now, somewhere along the line, you met this special young lady.
How did that occur, this young lady that you've spent a number of years with?
How did it occur?
Yeah.
Where did you all meet?
Well, I've known that young lady since she was
in the first grade.
And they're seven years different to our ages.
I'm seven years older.
And she was kind of an impressive little girl.
She was kind of a smart, I think, kind of impertinent.
No, I'm kidding.
She wasn't.
But I remember, she was a little slender, tiny thing, blonde-headed, wore her hair with
straight across the road, kind of cutting bags a little higher.
Her father at that time farmed pretty close to where my father did.
Well, then, of course, I went on the way to high school and to the service.
I didn't see her for years.
But she would come out in the summers and work with her grandparents that lived only a few miles, three or four miles.
I didn't see her then, but she still tells a lot of stories about her grandmother.
And her grandmother and grandfather were very, very impressive people.
They were way ahead of their time in many ways.
And her grandmother was
very strict about the way things should be done, and it rubbed off on my granddaughter.
And she still observes it.
When Grandmother Eads peeled the tomatoes, she gills the tomatoes.
Anyway, then, as I mentioned, when I came back from service,
I was at A&M, and heterosexual social life was almost impossible.
There were no women at A&M, just none, except they'd bring a few in on holidays.
So I would go to Stephen Bowl occasionally.
Then as I got on into my junior year and my senior year, well, I would be there sometimes for a holiday and we would have a date to go to a movie or something like that.
And so things went from one
One situation to the other, I guess.
And after I graduated, I mentioned I worked for the USDA one summer.
And I started work at Meridian, Texas.
You know where that is.
And I'd get weekends off.
So for some reason or other, I'd be at Arlington quite a bit.
Then the first thing I knew, they told me that I told them up front.
You know, I was going to work that summer.
I wasn't going to be a regular USDA veterinarian.
But the men in charge didn't believe that.
I guess they didn't.
They kept on trying to recruit me.
But then the second move I had, it went all the way to George West.
So it was pretty hard to get back to Arlington all weekend.
Then the summer was over and I came to Missouri.
And by that time, she had decided maybe she might put up with me for the next 50 years or so.
So then we got married at the end of, in February of 49.
So you're out of vet school less than a year?
Less than a year.
Yeah.
Okay.
Let's see.
I was talking, let's go back to A&M things.
Some special, special friends, associates, colleagues that you made during those years.
Who were some of the key associates for you, friends you made during those A&M years?
Oh, I suppose the most.
A true friend and the one that I remember and we've kept in touch most was my roommate, Willie Troja.
He was a little, what do you call the French in Louisiana?
Cajun.
Little French Cajun.
He had snappy black eyes, you know, just snapped.
He's a good man.
I appreciate Willie.
We've been friends a long time.
Oh, there were a few others.
A lot of them, of course, I have a warm spot in my heart for, but wasn't real close to.
I guess I couldn't name any that were that special.
All right, you started out with, you said 64 were admitted, about 60 enrolled.
Yeah, and see, then they increased it as much as they could for the class that started in the fall of 46.
I think they went to 72.
Didn't have room for them, but they went to... About how many graduated?
My class?
Well, I think about 50.
So maybe five out of six.
Yeah.
Now, some of them graduated later.
But that was quite good, wasn't it?
That was good, yeah.
As you recall that commencement time, was there a commencement ceremony that was memorable for you?
No, it wasn't very memorable, except it wasn't much of them.
They gathered us all up and had it in Kyle Field.
And we had a speaker, and I couldn't tell you who he was or a word he said.
Did the veterinary students graduate at the same ceremony as everybody else?
Just a lump sum.
Was every name called?
Was every hand shaken?
No.
Who came from your family?
My mother and father came.
I guess my sister, I don't remember, but yeah, I'm sure she did.
That's about it.
And you were not seriously yet?
Oh, no.
No, no.
Not that serious.
And that first job, do you remember what the pay was?
I got $44 every other week.
That'd be $88 a month, wasn't it?
Roughly.
That was with the USD?
Yeah.
But of course they had a good bit of benefits.
Part of the basic salary would have been something like $1,800 a year.
But by the time I got through taking off for this and that and something else, it wasn't very much, although $44 was more then than this.
What was your first pay as a professional veterinarian here at the University of Missouri?
Do you remember?
Yeah, it was roughly $3,100 a year or something like that.
3,100.
I could look that up, but that's about right.
All right.
A few questions now that have to do with Aggie feelings, spirit, etc.
What creates the depth of feeling
about A&M.
Why do those of us who have had a tie, what creates that loyalty, that feeling?
Not sure I could answer that for the student today.
I think for the students at our time, there was a, for the veteran students, there was a
a closely knit feeling, but not as closely knit as the Corps.
Nothing like that.
But there was never any doubt that if you were in school at that time that you were friends, maybe not
Both were buddies, but you were friends.
And you'd been through a lot of the same battles.
You'd been at Sing Sing on the browsers.
You're wearing a certain kind of ring there that I've seen a few people wear.
Why?
Because I earned it, I guess.
Oh, I feel a pride in Texas A&M.
I'm torn today because of allegiance between the University of Missouri and Texas A&M, but I'll always have a deep feeling before A&M.
We're getting close to the conclusion of this part.
What did it mean to you in your life that you attended A&M, if you could have gone somewhere else?
might feel different.
What did it mean that it was at A&M?
I think, to me, it had a deeper meaning because of the military background.
And although I never was a corpsman at Texas A&M, of course I was at Tarleton, some of the same feeling, although it was much more meaningful at A&M.
But I think the military may have had a factor.
I think the fact that we looked upon A&M as the poor boys' school.
We had the kids coming out of the project houses.
They weren't wealthy kids.
I think it was because, for me, it was an agricultural college.
And I'd grown up on a farm.